# When to argue over definitions
###### 2020-04-18

Some friends and I were arguing the other day about whether or not it makes
sense to say that a definition is "right" or not. I think that it
basically never makes sense to do this, and as far as I can remember, I've never
been in a situation where I thought it would be a productive use of time. When I
notice it's happening, I usually try to [taboo the word][taboo], if possible by
finding two more precise terms that already exist, or if necessary splitting
them into <word\>-1 and <word\>-2. If the other person is too stubborn to even
accept *that*, then (if I really needed to stay in the conversation for some
reaon) I would capitulate and just use their definition. There's no need to get
worked up over the mere association of concepts with air vibrations.

One of my friends thought that, say, if you were to redefine "fuck" as "chair,"
that would be wrong because that's not the standard definition used by the
public. You aren't going to communicate effectively with people if you define
words like that. 

But notice that there's no actual difference of expectation here. I agree that
if you go around using "fuck" to mean "chair," you're just going to make people
cross with you instead of having a perfectly reasonable conversation about what
sorts of things you like to sit down in. He thought this was a sufficient
condition for the definition to be "wrong," and I didn't.

You don't want to be overzealous with this; there are some questions which, on
their face, look to be purely about the definitions of words, but in fact are
actually asking something important.

This discussion came up in part due to another discusson I had with the same
friends a few weeks ago. One of them had described someone as "rational, but not
practical," and this struck her as strange. To her, it seemed like those words
should refer to the same concept, but she had encountered someone who satisfied
the first and not the second. We then spent (quite awhile) talking about what
the difference seemed to be for each of us.

At first glance, you might think that this whole topic lacks a subject, and is
really just an instance of the [standard dispute][stddispute]. But really, we were 
just investigating our individual binning algorithms, which can definitely be a
productive thing to do. On the other hand, if we started saying things like "my 
definition of 'practical' is right and yours is wrong," then we would be in
trouble.

[taboo]: https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/WBdvyyHLdxZSAMmoz/taboo-your-words
[stddispute]: https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/7X2j8HAkWdmMoS8PE/disputing-definitions
